the sound is a really big part I think
of the experience of using a pencil and
it has this really audible scratchiness
[Music]
the pencil is a very simple object it's
made of wood with some layers of paint
and eraser and a quart which is made out
of graphite clay and water yet it took
hundreds of people over centuries to
come to this design and it's that long
history of collaboration that to me
makes it a very perfect object the story
of the pencil starts with graphite
people started finding really useful
applications for this new substance they
cut it into small sticks and wrapped it
in string or shoot standard paper and
sold it on the streets of London to be
used for writing or for drawing or a lot
of times very farmers and Shepherds who
would use it to mark their animals over
in France Nicola Conte figured out a
method of grinding the graphite mixing
it with powdered clay in water to make a
paste from there this piece was filled
into a mold and fired in a kiln and the
result was a really really strong
graphite core that wasn't breakable that
was smooth usable it was so much better
than anything else that existed at the
time and to this day that's the method
that's been making pencils meanwhile
over in America in Concord Massachusetts
it was Henry David Thoreau who came up
with a grading scale for different
hardnesses of pencil and it was graded
one through four number two being the
ideal hardness for general use the
softer the pencil the more graphite I
had in it and the darker and smoother
the line will be the firmer the pencil
the more quiet had in it and the lighter
and finer it will be originally when
pencils were handmade they were made
around there was no easy way to make
them and it was the Americans who really
mechanized the craft a lot of people
credit Joseph Dickson for being one of
the first people to start developing
actual machines to do things like cut
wood slats cut grooves into the wood
like glued to them
and they figured out that it was easier
and less wasteful to do a hexagonal
pencil and so that became the standard
since the early days of pencils people
have loved that they can be erased
originally it was bread crumbs that were
used to scratch away pencil marks and
later rubber and pumice the attached
eraser happened in 1858 when American
stationer Hyman Lippmann patented the
first pencil with an attached eraser
which really changed the pencil game the
world's first yellow pencil was the
Kohinoor 1500 Kohinoor did this crazy
thing where they painted this pencil
with 14 coats of yellow paint and dipped
the end in 14-karat gold there's a
pencil for every one and an every pencil
has a story the black wings 602 is
famous for being used by a lot of
writers especially John Steinbeck and
Vladimir Nabokov and then you have Dixon
pencil company they're responsible for
the Dixon Ticonderoga it's an icon it's
what people think of when they think of
a pencil and what they think of when
they think of school and if the pencil
is really a thing that I think the
average user has never thought twice
about how it's made or why it's made the
way it is because it's just always been
that way in my opinion there's nothing
that can be done to make the pencil
better than it is it's perfect
[Music]